Bernard and googie's been working on
farms in Kenya for about 20 years he
says he'd work in Israel if given the
chance and he's not put off by the risks
of
conflict I want to bring up my children
well but I've never had the chance
because I've never had a good job where
I can stand on my own two feet if this
chance is the one I can help my parents
and I can build for my
family about 10,000 foreign workers have
left Israel since Hamas attacked on
October the 7th most are from Thailand
including these men who were captured
and later released by Hamas others were
killed Israel's also revoked work
permits for
Palestinians now it's turning to African
countries to plug the Gap more than 200
Farm Workers left Malawi for Israel last
month following a secret deal with the
government last week here in Kenya the
labor Ministry said it would send 1,500
workers who will each be paid $1,500 a
month there are millions of people in
Kenya who live in homes like that and
work on farms growing crops like these
for which many earn about $200 a month
so the money on offer in Israel is hard
to refuse realistically many of the jobs
will go to people who are more
privileged and have better access to the
recruitment companies but while it may
seem like a good opportunity to many
political opposition say the arrangement
is problematic and exploitative
Israel's previously been criticized for
its treatment of African migrants and
rights groups have reported abuses of
foreign Farm Workers Israel says migrant
workers have the same rights as Israeli
citizens there is a level of transform
Kenya's opposition says the government
should create jobs at home instead of
looking for them abroad we know the
genocide they're committing in Gaza uh
that's uh that's just to wink the world
that we are still okay as a country but
we all know that's not true I mean uh
these arrangements with presidents weak
African presidents that are not able to
build their own countries is trying to
sanitize itself Kenyans are struggling
with soaring living costs the farmers
here say whatever the risks the chance
of earning more abroad is too good to
turn down Malcolm Webb Al jazer kikuyu
Kenya make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer